♪ Every case in the forest ♪
♪ Is challenging and difficult ♪
♪ Detective Toby and Teri ♪
♪ Will find the answer ♪
♪ We're the best case solvers ♪
♪ Detective Toby and Teri ♪
♪ We are the best partners ♪
LITTLE DETECTIVES
TOBY & TERI
[sighs] That was
the yummiest lunch ever!
A trip to the beach
always means a yummy lunch,
and when lunch is over,
this is the very best part!
That's right. Time for another
legendary adventure.
Of the oceanic...
[all] BigFin!
"It was a windy day.
A boatload of bunnies
was sailing the seas
when suddenly out of the water
rose five angry shark sisters,
and they were hungry
for bunnies."
Let's act it out.
[roars]
Hah! I'm a growly shark.
And I'm
a whole bunch of bunnies.
-[growling]
-Ahh! Sharks! BigFin, help me!
I mean us! Help the bunnies!
"And that's
just what BigFin did.
She swam right up to those big,
bad shark sisters and roared."
Roar!
"The shark sisters were so
afraid of BigFin's mighty roar,
they turned
immediately to stone."
-[roars]
-I'm so scared!
[groaning]
That's me turning to stone.
"And the bunnies
were safe to sail away,
all because of BigFin."
-[all cheer]
-Yay, BigFin!
They call these stories
tall tales,
'cause they stretch the truth,
but there's always something
a little real in them.
[gasps]
So BigFin could be real?
Then we should totally find out
if BigFin is really real.
I wish we could go
on an ocean adventure.
That would be amazing. Can we?
An oceangoing mystery.
[laughs]
That's hard to resist.
Sounds like we've got a case.
[Teri] Will you excuse us?
To the treehouse!
[camera clicks]
Animals have been telling
BigFin stories for years.
So why has no one
ever found her?
I guess they didn't know
where to look,
but if we use
the clues in the stories,
we can finally find out
if BigFin's really real.
There's a lot at stake.
There always is, little brother.
There always is.
Let's do this.
♪ Looking for clues ♪
♪ Check the scene ♪
♪ Any cases ♪
♪ Little detectives ♪
♪ Can solve it ♪
[together]
Let's ace this case!
If BigFin's out there,
she'll be in the water for sure.
Which means we need a boat.
Lucky for us, Commodore Barry
said we could use his.
Isn't it great?
[shudders] A boat?
Even thinking about sailing
makes my tummy do flip-flops.
Do you mind if I stay here?
Hey, you and I
can be mission control.
I'll watch Commodore Barry's
satellite system,
and you can be
in charge of communication.
Yeah. Just radio the information
to Search Team Alpha.
That's us.
Roger. A-okay. 10-4. Gotcha.
Let's start
with the story Millie read
where BigFin turned
the shark sisters to stone.
Is there a clue there?
You can't really
turn anybody to stone.
But Toby said
there's a little truth
in all these stories, right?
Right. So maybe
we're looking for stones
that look like sharks.
But are they shaped like sharks
when they growl, grr, or go chomp?
We'll know when we see them.
Let's see what Millie can find.
-[radio crackles]
-[animal chatters]
Hey, did you just hear
someone giggle?
[giggles]
No, but thinking about giggling
makes me giggle.
[giggles]
Hmm.
[satellite beeping]
Teri said they were looking
for a bunch of rocks.
Here, just south by southwest
of their position,
there's a spot on the map
called the Five Sisters.
Tell Toby to set a heading
for 347 degrees.
Here they are,
just like Rumy said.
We found the Five Sisters.
Great job, guys.
[Bean] One, two, three,
four, five, six.
If these are called
the Five Sisters,
why do I count six rocks?
One, two, three, four--
I only count five.
[Bean] Huh. There was another,
like a flat,
gray island kind of rock.
Huh. Well the five that are left
look just like shark fins.
And that's
just like in the story.
So someone once saw BigFin here.
But where did she go after that?
"After BigFin
turned the sharks to stone,
she bade the bunnies adieu
and headed home to
the warm waters of the island
of the single palm."
But the ocean's cold, and I
don't see any islands at all.
What about Acorn Lagoon?
Good idea. The water's
definitely warm there,
and it's connected
to the ocean. Rumy...
tell Millie to look again,
Acorn Lagoon.
[Rumy] Millie found it!
The island of the
single palm is there!
Then we're headed for
the warm waters of Acorn Lagoon.
-Yay!
-Let's go!
[giggles]
-Hmm.
-[giggles]
[gasps] Hah!
Got you! [gasps]
Hey, what are you?
I'm a baby whale.
My name's Poppy.
-Wow!
-That's so cool!
Told you I heard giggling.
Are you BigFin?
You're awfully small to be BigFin.
Who's BigFin?
Only the most legendary creature
in all the ocean.
She's gigantic
and really nice,
but nobody knows
if she's real or not.
[gasps] You guys
should try to find her!
[Bean] That's what we're doing.
You wanna help?
Me? I'd love
to help you find BigFin,
but where do we look?
The last clue said she lived on
the island of the single palm.
We were thinking
it might be in Acorn Lagoon.
It is. Do you want me to show you?
Sure. Thanks, Poppy.
Come on. Follow me.
-Yay!
Here it is, the island
of the single palm.
This is where my mom and I
spend every winter.
Really? If BigFin has been here,
you must have seen her then.
Did you? Did you ever see BigFin?
No, I don't think
I've ever seen a BigFin,
but maybe my mom has.
Her mom? A grown-up gray whale
would be pretty big.
Maybe big enough to be BigFin.
Poppy, can you call your mom?
We'd love to meet her.
Sure. Hey, Mom!
-Whoa!
-Wow!
I think we just found BigFin.
I think you're right.
Mom, say hi to my new friends.
Hello.
[Teri] Hello.
It's very nice to meet you.
You're the biggest anything
I've ever seen.
I bet you're as big as BigFin!
I think Poppy's mom is BigFin.
So what are you guys doing
in the lagoon?
This is a nice, warm place
for Poppy to play.
We'll go back north
when winter is over.
It says here every year
gray whales like Poppy's mom
travel thousands of miles
so they can raise their babies
in warm lagoons like ours.
I bet the first time someone
saw whales in the lagoon,
they didn't know what they were.
So they made up
the BigFin stories.
That's right. BigFin is real.
[Teri laughs]
And she's a gray whale.
Whoa. My mom is BigFin?
That's so cool!
-[radio crackles]
-Rumy calling Toby.
Mayday! Mayday! Uh, hello?
What is it, Rumy?
Millie says the wind is
starting to change directions.
You better hurry
back to the beach.
Uh-oh. If the wind is changing,
we won't be able
to sail back to the dock.
Don't worry. My Mom can help.
-Right, Mom?
-Definitely.
Toss me a rope,
and I'll get you home.
Rumy and Millie, we'll meet you
back at the beach.
That's right,
'cause we're getting saved by...
[all] BigFin!
Whoa.
[Millie] It's so nice
to meet you, Poppy and BigFin.
I can't believe BigFin
just brought you home.
You lived a BigFin story!
We did. It's so cool!
You know, we could hear
a BigFin story
from BigFin herself.
Wow. Will you, Mom?
Of course. I'd love to.
Gather round,
and I'll tell you the story
of BigFin
and the silliest sailboat.
[all cheer]
But first, everyone smile,
and say, "Whales"!
-Whales!
[camera clicks]
[laughs] It's pretty amazing
that whales spend the winter
in our lagoon.
No wonder
everyone made up stories.
They didn't know
what they were seeing.
But when you follow the facts,
they lead you to the truth.
And a couple
of great, big new friends.
Time to close this case.
♪ Finding clues ♪
♪ We solved the case ♪
♪ Follow the facts ♪
♪ The case is now solved ♪
♪ We are detective Toby and Teri ♪
[together]
"The Case of the Tall Tail"
is officially closed.
[Toby sighs] What a perfect
night for stargazing.
And for enjoying
delicious hot cocoa.
[gasps]
Oh, wow. Did you see that one?
That was the biggest
shooting star I've ever seen.
You know, when you see
a shooting star,
somebody gets to make a wish,
and it might come true.
Really? Oh, let Jay make one.
Jay, what's your wish gonna be?
Ooh. How exciting! Okay.
Um, I wish for--
Uh, let's see.
Um, I wish for...
What's Bean doing?
What is Bean doing?
Bean? Hello!
Oh, hey.
Bean, what are you reading?
I got the new Explorers
of Acorn Springs book.
This one's called
Merry Mountaineers.
See? They're mountain climbing.
Oh, I love those books.
My favorite is the one
where they explore the jungle.
I like the knights
in shining armor one.
And remember the one
with the pirates?
Avast. Matey, that was
one swashbuckling tale, it was.
It would be amazing to be pirates
or knights on a safari,
or brave
mountain climbers on a quest.
I can't decide which one
would be the most fun.
I'd like to do 'em all!
I wish I could be a pirate
knight who took a safari
to a mountaintop!
Hey. We were just wishing
on shooting stars.
You could find one, and
then wish for all that stuff.
There's one.
Quick. Make a wish.
[stammers] I wish--
I wish-- I wish for all
the adventures in my books!
So where are my adventures?
A wish that big
might take a little time.
Four adventures in one is a
lot to ask for. I don't know.
You might need to
wait 'til morning.
Yeah, after we have
a good night's sleep.
Then I'm going to bed right now.
The sooner I go to sleep,
the sooner I wake up,
and the sooner I wake up,
the sooner my wish comes true.
Good night, everybody!
[Toby] Good night.
See you in the morning.
[birds chirping]
Bean, what's wrong?
[groans]
I made my wish,
and I waited all night,
but look. I still don't have
my jungle-pirate-knights in
shining armor mountain climbers.
Wait! I just thought of something.
If Bean wished on a star,
then his wish is
probably still sitting
on that star
somewhere out there.
That makes sense.
If we find the star,
we'll find Bean's wish.
And if we find my wish,
it's gonna come true!
Can you guys help me
find my shooting star?
Sure we can.
Sounds like we've got a case.
Will you excuse us?
To the treehouse!
[camera clicks]
If we find the star
Bean wished on,
maybe his wish will come true.
We'll never know for sure,
unless we find that star.
And Bean really wants to be
a jungle-pirate-knight in
shining armor mountain climber.
There's a lot at stake.
There always is, little brother.
There always is.
Let's do this.
♪ Looking for clues ♪
♪ Check the scene ♪
♪ Any cases ♪
♪ Little detectives ♪
♪ Can solve it ♪
[together]
Let's ace this case!
We know the star
flew over the trees,
so if we use the clues,
it probably landed right here
on the beach somewhere.
Oh! So this is
like a treasure hunt!
Exactly, and just like treasure,
a star is going to be shiny,
so look for something
that sparkles.
-[laughs] We're like pirates.
-Whoo-hoo!
Aye, mateys, pirates in search
of our starry pirate's treasure.
Shiver me timbers. I see an X.
Avast ye. Something shiny
is catching my eye, then. Look.
Oh, no! The hermit crab
has got my star!
What's he going to do
with all those adventures?
Maybe he'll share. Come on.
Huh?
[hermit crab mutters]
-[shrieks]
-Don't be scared.
We be friendly pirates.
We just want to share the magic
of that shooting star.
[hermit crab squeaks]
He's right.
It's just sea glass.
It's not a star at all.
We followed the facts we had,
but it looks like your star
got away. I'm sorry, Bean.
[sighs] What do we do now?
We just have to wait
until tonight
so Bean can wish
on a brand-new star.
And this time,
we'll be ready to catch it.
This star stakeout
is officially on,
you know,
as soon as it gets dark.
And while we wait,
we can have a snack.
I baked some cookies
that look like stars.
Go on. Take one.
[laughs]
Look. My star cookie is
up floating in the sky
right by that
fire-breathing dragon.
Wow! That cloud
does look like a dragon.
Don't let it eat your cookie.
[laughs] It won't have
a chance to eat Bean's cookie,
not with the princess
protecting it.
She's not afraid
of fire-breathing dragons.
Wait. Look at that.
[Millie]
The princess and the dragon
have decided to join forces
to save the knight.
See? He's stuck
up in a great, big tower.
That shooting star!
Bean, quick! Make your wish,
and let's get that star!
Oh, I'm wishing
for all my adventures.
Okay, then, Star Catchers.
It's star-catching time.
It went that way!
-Yippee!
-[cheering]
Let's do this!
...and the pirate
and the mountain climbers...
Guys, wait for me!
So what do we do now?
[Jay] There's so many trees,
we can't see Bean's star.
It's like a jungle in here.
If we're gonna find Bean's star,
we're gonna have to get through
this very jungley jungle.
-[bird trills]
-[animal shrieks]
What was that?
It sounded like a crested
black macaque or a macaw...
or a macaroon.
Almost impossible to say.
We better move. Let's cross
the jungle safari-style.
Everybody do the safari sneak.
And now everybody do
the jungle jump.
[trills]
[yelling and hooting]
Wait. Where'd my star go?
It went this way.
I'm sure of it,
but shooting stars
just fall so fast,
it's hard to catch 'em!
You're right, and once
they go behind the trees,
there's just no way
of knowing where they landed.
Wait a minute. All those things
you mentioned are clues,
clues we can use.
If the trees are blocking our view,
we've gotta find
a place above them.
-How are we gonna get up high?
-We climb.
We made it!
We hiked to the top
just like
the Merry Mountaineers.
[Toby] Wow, we can see
every single star
in Acorn Springs from here.
[gasps] They're beautiful.
Now, when you see
a shooting star,
you can make your wish.
And we'll be able to catch
it for sure this time.
I can't wait.
I've never caught a star before.
Ah! There goes one
and another and--
Oh, boy.
Somebody catch one!
-Hurry! Hurry! Hurry!
-[yelling]
It's getting away!
[panting] Get back here!
I'm gonna get you,
you shooting star.
-Oops!
-Ahh!
[Teri] I got it! I got it!
-[thump]
-[all groan]
Huh. I don't think
that worked out
exactly like we hoped.
You're right.
Now that we're up here,
you can see the shooting stars
are actually really far away.
And none of them are
actually hitting the ground.
It looks like they're
just disappearing in the sky.
Yeah, where are they going?
It says here that shooting stars
are bits of space dust.
They light up
when they get close to us,
then, fwoosh, they just vanish.
I'm sorry, Bean.
I know you really wanted
your wish to come true.
I really did.
But you know what? Even though
we didn't catch a star,
I think Bean did get his wish.
I did?
Yeah. We dug for treasure
like real pirates.
And we saw knights and
princesses in the clouds.
And played a game of
follow the leader in the jungle.
And don't forget
we climbed to the top
of the highest mountain
in Acorn Springs.
It was everything I wished for,
and we did it all.
I guess you don't need stars
to make your wishes come true.
You just need your friends.
You guys are better than all
the shooting stars in the world.
Everybody smile,
and say, "Shooting stars"!
-Shooting stars!
[camera clicks]
Last night, we learned so much
about shooting stars.
I can't believe they never
get close enough to catch.
It's true. They don't,
and they're
not really stars at all,
but it's fun to make wishes
when you see them.
Especially when your friends can help
make those wishes come true.
Time to close this case.
♪ Finding clues ♪
♪ We solved the case ♪
♪ Follow the facts ♪
♪ The case is now solved ♪
♪ We are detective Toby and Teri ♪
[together]
"The Case of the Shooting Star"
is officially closed.